1/2
MassDOT: All lanes reopened on I-495 following removal ofÉ
Resize:
Live Streams
MassDOT: All lanes reopened on I-495 following removal of stranded MBTA train car
By Katie Brace, Boston 25 News and Frank O'Laughlin, Boston 25 News StaffFebruary 22, 2023 at 10:21 pm EST
MassDOT: All lanes reopened on I-495 following removal of stranded MBTA train car 
By Katie Brace, Boston 25 News and Frank O'Laughlin, Boston 25 News StaffFebruary 22, 2023 at 10:21 pm EST
CHELMSFORD, Mass. Ñ All lanes on Interstate 495 in Chelmsford have been reopened following the removal of a new MBTA Orange Line train car that has been stranded on the side of the highway since Tuesday night.
The train car was in transit from Springfield to the Massachusetts Bay Transportation AuthorityÕs Wellington station when the driver experienced a problem and the trailer separated from the truck on the northbound side of the highway just before Route 3 around 9 p.m., according to state police and a T spokesperson.
There were no injuries reported. The new subway car was not damaged in the incident.
ÊÊÊÊIn a statement issued Wednesday afternoon, MassDOT said, ÒThere will be additional lane and ramp closures on I-495 northbound beginning at 5:00 p.m. to support the operations to remove the oversized vehicle.Ó
By Project-Management.com 
The breakdown and right travel lane have been closed since the train car broke loose. The effort to remove the train car was delayed during the morning commute in an effort to avoid traffic backups.
MassDOT noted that the timing of the truck removal and repair operation has been expedited because snow, sleet, and freezing rain that is expected to move into the area after 7 p.m.
ÔLimit travelÕ: Ice a major concern for Massachusetts, parts of New Hampshire bracing for heavy snow

The scheduled lane and ramp closures are as follows:
* Beginning at 5:00 p.m., the Collector/Distributor (C/D) Road adjacent to I-495 northbound will be closed just north of the off ramp to exit 89A (Route 3 southbound). Traffic on I-495 northbound seeking to access exit 89B (Route 3 northbound) or exit 89C (Lowell Connector inbound) will be diverted to exit 89A (Route 3 southbound) and then directed to use exit 79 (Route 129) to reverse direction to access Route 3 northbound and exit 80 (Lowell Connector inbound). The on and off ramps on the northbound C/D road will remain open to traffic entering and exiting from roadways other than I-495 northbound.
* Beginning at 7:00 p.m., an additional lane on I-495 northbound will be closed to support the removal operations. The left lane will remain open to traffic.
Drivers are urged to avoid the area during the time the lane and ramp closures are in place. Drivers that must travel through the area are advised to reduce speed and use caution while approaching and traveling through the work zone.
All lanes and ramps are expected to be fully reopened prior to 5:00 a.m. Thursday, according to MassDOT.
The cause of the trailer detachment is under investigation.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates as more information becomes available.
Download the FREE Boston 25 News app for breaking news alerts.
Follow Boston 25 News on Facebook and Twitter. | Watch Boston 25 News NOW
©2023 Cox Media Group
Read Next
